---
date: 2025/01/20 2:35
url: https://discord.com/channels/563650322518638592/623142507995463690/1330591598370623509
exp: true
---
- New: A cartridge (history) selection menu when joining a game in which you missed opportunities to get cartridges. Can also be access via ESC->Cartridge History
- New: Introduced max cartridge counts for some cartridge when the effect doesn’t scale indefinitely
- New: A new cartridge slot “Action cartridge” has been introduced. Players can only own one action cartridge type. Action cartridges use a button (eg [CTRL]/(Y)) to perform the action. Action cartridges are throwing, riding and a some new ones. Note that the cartridge overwrite can’t overwrite action cartridges.
- New: Ghost-Action-Cartridge
- New: Stomp-Action-Cartridge
- New: Jetpack-Action-Cartridge
- New: Cartridge replacer modifier for editor (to simulate a cartridge replacer station)
- New: Ingame Crowns for any top 10 highscore entry (week, month, year or all time and can be any engine).
- New: You can see personal highscores when clicking on a name online (only shows it for the Main version though)
- Improvement: You can switch the selected slot in the cartridge hub with Q/E
- Change: In swamp you can now ride the frog instead of the spider & the spider can’t be carried anymore
- Change: Player ring is now projected to the ground
- Balance: Max speed from speed-perk is slightly larger, but the increase per perk is slightly lower
- Balance: Frog has 9 health now instead of 1
- Balance: Stacking has a slightly larger speed penalty
- Balance: Brute force scales a bit slower up but from level 5 on, there is also a chance to hit diagonal neighbours
- Balance: To ride with the riding cartridge you need to press the “perk-action” button. Riding works only a limited time that is based on the amount of riding cartridges you have. While riding, you can do carry/mine/etc and you automatically get the milk buffs of the animal you’re riding
- Balance: It’s now possible to build bridges with compressed wood. Bridges with compressed wood will automatically add bridges on neighboring tiles if possible.
- Balance: Slot machines don’t grant action cartridges
- Balance: Each overwrite at a Cartridge Overwriter station can now be used max 5 times per player
- Balance: Reduced max speed cap for the canyon boss
- Balance: In endless, the countdown gets reduced about a second for each track when placing more than 10 tracks ahead of the train during the countdown
- Bug fix: The ability to place tracks on teleporters has been disabled
- Bug fix: It was possible to place tracks inside shrines on a transition area
- Bug fix: Octoboss map spawned a bolt instead of a cassette
- Bug fix: Sometimes no other players could spawn anymore on custom maps
- Bug fix: Bot easily pick/place loops when using the transformer wagon
- Bug fix: Boss speed on 2nd visits were too slow
- Bug fix: Probably fixed a rare online de-sync issue